Update python type hints style guide (#1026)
ONSdigital/eq-questionnaire-runner: doc/python-type-hinting.md

## Optional arguments

For arguments that can be a single type or None, use the shorthand `|` instead of using the older `Optional` keyword:

```python

> def test(self, var: [None | int]) -> None:

Reviewer: The square brackets shouldn't exist.

> 

Reviewer: There are references to "Optional" still

Author: Reference to optional refactored with pipe operator

## Optional arguments

For arguments that can be a single type or None, use the shorthand `|`. This is recommended instead of using older `Optional` keyword:

```python
def test(self, var: [None | int]) -> None:
```

For arguments that can be one of multiple types or None, use the shorthand `|`. This is recommended instead of using older `Union` keyword:

```python

> def test(self, var: [None | int | str]) -> None:

Reviewer: I'm of the opinion that `Optional` is clearer when there is only one type.

This:
```py
var: Optional[int]
```

instead of: 

```py
var: int | None
```

---

But, this: 

```py
var: int | str | None
``` 

instead of: 

```py
var: Union[Optional[int], Optional[str]]
```

See what the others think. Happy to go with the consensus.

Reviewer 2: Don't have a preference at first glance although:

It would seem Python's core development team [recommends](https://stackoverflow.com/a/69440627) using `Type | None` over `Optional` for Python 10+.
Thus I suspect the piping symbol will be widely adopted moving forward and `Optional` will become outdated.

Using the piping symbol will make it easier for new joiners to get familiar with the code base.

Reviewer: My view is that, I think the repeated `None` makes it less readable. The official doc doesn't mention the deprecation of it or preference. I'm only in favour of using `Optional` if it is a single type. If you have 2 types + None, then the new operator would be best.

To me, this looks isn't very clear:

```py
def test(self, var: int | None = None) -> None:
```

compared to:

```py
def test(self, var: Optional[int] = None) -> None:
```

Again, happy to go with consensus if others think it is readable.

Reviewer 3: I prefer if we only use `|`, I find it more readable, even in `int | None` situation, but up to you guys.

Reviewer 4: Looking at the examples I like the idea of using the `|` :
`int | str | None` 

But when there default types
`Optional[t] = None`
is easier to read to me then:
`t | None = None`

Reviewer: Okay, in that case let's go with the single use of optional using `pipe` operator i.e `Type | None = None`

> def test(self, var: [None | int | str]) -> None:

Reviewer: For this one, this comes from the option which we disabled called `implict_optional`. As recommended and following zen of Python "explict is better than implict" is why this is enforced. The original PEP discourages this. https://peps.python.org/pep-0484/#union-types

From the PEP:

A past version of this PEP allowed type checkers to assume an optional type when the default value is None, as in this code:
```py
def handle_employee(e: Employee = None): ...
```

This would have been treated as equivalent to:
```py
def handle_employee(e: Optional[Employee] = None) -> None: ...
```
This is no longer the recommended behavior. Type checkers should move towards requiring the optional type to be made explicit.

> def test(self, var: [None | int | str]) -> None:

Author: As this is no longer the recommended behaviour, I understand that I do not need to add a section on this to the documentation?

> def test(self, var: [None | int | str]) -> None:

Reviewer 2: Thanks @MebinAbraham , wasn't aware of this change, happy to ignore this comment @Hajara-I  👍

> def test(self, var: [None | int | str]) -> None:

Reviewer: The `[]` are not needed for union. Should just be `var: None | int`?

Author: Refactored to remove `[]`

```python
from typing import Self

class Shape:
    def set_scale(self, scale: float) -> Self:
        self.scale = scale
        return self

class Circle(Shape):
    def set_radius(self, radius: float) -> Self:
        self.radius = radius
        return self
```

This is recommended as forward declarations are now redundant in 3.10
https://peps.python.org/pep-0673/

## Type Alias

Use the special annotation `TypeAlias` to declare type aliases more explicitly so type checkers are able to distinguish between type aliases and ordinary assignments:

```python
MyType: TypeAlias = "ClassName"
def foo() -> MyType: ...
```

## Type Ignore

To mark portions of the program that should not be covered by type hinting, use `# type: ignore` on the specific line. When used in a line by itself at the top of a file, it silences all errors in the file:

```python
# type: ignore
```

`# type: ignore` should only be used when unavoidable. Ensure that a comment is added to explain why it has been used and have a prefix of `Type ignore:`

```python
# Type ignore: Explain why type ignore has been used in this context
x: int

> x: str  # type: ignore

Reviewer: We should add a more meaningful example. This to me isn't valid. Maybe one where it returns any then you explicitly type it.

```python
from typing import Self

class Shape:
    def set_scale(self, scale: float) -> Self:
        self.scale = scale
        return self

class Circle(Shape):
    def set_radius(self, radius: float) -> Self:
        self.radius = radius
        return self
```

This is recommended as forward declarations are now redundant in 3.10
https://peps.python.org/pep-0673/

## Type Alias

Use the special annotation `TypeAlias` to declare type aliases more explicitly so type checkers are able to distinguish between type aliases and ordinary assignments:

```python
MyType: TypeAlias = "ClassName"
def foo() -> MyType: ...
```

## Type Ignore

To mark portions of the program that should not be covered by type hinting, use the following on a particular line:

```python
# type: ignore
```

A `# type: ignore` comment on a line by itself at the top of a file silences all errors in the file.

`# type: ignore` should only be used when unavoidable. Ensure that a comment is added to explain why it has been used and have a prefix of `Type ignore:`.

> 

Reviewer 5: I would add an example here to make this clearer, maybe the comment and a line below with the #type: ignore added?

Author: Example added to better illustrate the use of `Type ignore`

## ParamSpec

Used to forward the parameter types of one callable to another callable. This is useful when type annotating decorators.

For example, a basic logging function decorator can be typed as:

```python
T = TypeVar('T')
P = ParamSpec('P')

def add_logging(f: Callable[P, T]) -> Callable[P, T]:
    '''A type-safe decorator to add logging to a function.'''
    def inner(*args: P.args, **kwargs: P.kwargs) -> T:
        logging.info(f'{f.__name__} was called')
        return f(*args, **kwargs)
    return inner

@add_logging
def add_two(x: float, y: float) -> float:
    '''Add two numbers together.'''
    return x + y
```

## TypeVar

Use `TypeVar` when the type returned by a function is the same as the type which was passed in i.e. the return type is linked to the parameter type:

```python
T = TypeVar('T')

def increment_value(self, value: T) -> T:
    return value + 1
```

`TypeVar` also accepts extra positional arguments to restrict the type parameter for improving code documentation and error prevention.

```python
T = TypeVar('T', int, float)

def increment_value(self, value: T) -> T:
    return value + 1
```

> This tells the typechecker that values other than `int` and `float` are not allowed, resulting in an error if a string is passed for example:

Reviewer 5: Think the examples are ok, maybe some of the sentences here don't add much over what is already in the docs and not really team specific?

Author: Sections refactored to be more team specific

https://www.python.org/dev/peps/pep-0563/

## Type Ignore

To mark portions of the program that should not be covered by type hinting, use the following on a particular line:

```python
# type: ignore
```

A `# type: ignore` comment on a line by itself at the top of a file silences all errors in the file.

> `# type: ignore` should only be used when unavoidable. Ensure that a comment is added to explain why it has been used.

Reviewer 4: May want to specifically state that the comment used to explain the type ignore needs a prefix of `Type ignore:` so that we can tell what the comment is for and allow us to easily find it future.
For example:
"Ensure that a comment is added to explain why it has been used and have a prefix of `Type ignore:`"

Author: Agreed.

Reviewer: I don't think this has been done?

Author: I have now updated this section as suggested above

## ParamSpec

Used to forward the parameter types of one callable to another callable e.g. to add basic logging to a function, create a decorator add_logging to log function calls:

```python

> T = TypeVar('T')

Reviewer 3: More of a question to all the reviewers. As I mentioned in tech session, do we want to restrict types in TypeVar? Some explanation:

<img width="801" alt="Screenshot 2023-02-13 at 09 59 31" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/53475968/218707702-6bc0b902-0f38-4c95-9440-1499a7b15824.png">

Reviewer 3: Also do we want to enforce [NoReturn](https://docs.python.org/3/library/typing.html#typing.NoReturn) instead of `None`? It will be replaced by [Never](https://docs.python.org/3/library/typing.html#typing.Never) in python 3.11.

Reviewer: As discussed, `NoReturn` isn't a replacement for `None`.

Reviewer 2: I am in favour of encouraging TypeVar restricting where possible, as it improves the code documentation and error prevention.
However I think there might be legitimate cases for an unrestricted TypeVar, typically a very generic util function.

Author: New section now added for `TypeVar` with examples on how to implement it.

> Used to forward the parameter types of one callable to another callable e.g. to add basic logging to a function, create a decorator add_logging to log function calls:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Used to forward the parameter types of one callable to another callable. This is useful when type annotating decorators.

 For example, a basic logging function decorator can be typed as:
```
